# [James Traina](https://sites.google.com/site/trainajames/)'s Preprint Repo
This repo is for my working papers that are revised too often for [SSRN](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=2227781).

## Job Market Paper
### "Labor Market Power and Technological Change in US Manufacturing," with Ivan Kirov
We estimate plant-level production functions with Census microdata to document rising labor market power in the US manufacturing sector: production workers were paid their marginal revenue product in 1972, but only half this amount by 2014. The aggregate labor wedge emerges because marginal revenue product growth accelerates, while wage growth remains stable. At the plant level, labor wedges negatively predict labor shares, consistent with the hypothesis that labor market power helps account for the decline of the US manufacturing labor share. Testing mega-/superstar firm hypotheses and existing macroeconomic models, we find mixed evidence that labor market power is related to labor market concentration. By comparison, labor market power is strongly correlated with direct measures of information and communication technologies, and indirect measures of management and automation technologies. Our results underscore technological change as a key driver of labor market power through its effect on the marginal cost of labor.

## Other Preprints
### "[Profit Puzzles or: Public Firm Profits Have Fallen](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/James-Traina/Preprints/main/Profit_Puzzles.pdf)," with Carter Davis and Alex Sollaci
We show that public firm profit rates fell by half since 1980. Inferred as the residual from the rise of US corporate profit rates in aggregate data, private firm profit rates doubled since 1980. Public firm financial returns matched their fall in profit rates, while public firm representativeness increased from 30% to 60% of the US capital stock. These results imply that time-varying selection biases in extrapolating public firms to the aggregate economy can be severe.
